# Hudl Frontend test suite

Hudl Frontend tests are BDD tests which runs against Hudl portal to test scenarios in the UI.
Version 1.0 is for testing the login feature of Hudl. The same framework can be used to build the other tests on top by making use of the existing methods in the test suite. It is a Maven project based in Cucumber and TestNG framework written in Java. There are three modules in the project which are also individually based in Maven :

Core - Has all the common properties and resources, the common test scenarios or the shared steps between all the other modules. It has the webdriver factory classes for implementing WebDriverFactory bean. This can be configured to run across browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Safari and Edge. It has all the common bean definitions.

Portal - Has all the test cases written in gherkin format. These are BDD tests which has scenarios and steps written in Given-When-Then format and their relevant step definitions glued with them. This portal project also has some database methods for resetting test data and comparing results with the values in the database and asserting if they match, etc. 
(The existing tests for Login doesn't require connectivity to database but the framework has the ability to connect to database by updating the database connection details in common.properties file under core. PortalData.java file can contain the DB validation methods and queries for assertions/comparisons in the DB)

Model - Has all the model classes for locating elements on the webpage and performing user actions on the webpage. This is based on a design pattern in selenium called PageFactory. Page Object Model creates an object repository for storing all the web elements. It’s useful in reducing code duplication and improving test case maintenance.

The tests use Spring Dependency Injection to share data between scenarios and to use multiple datasources(just in case)

All the failed test scenarios with screenshots would be sent through an email in the form of a test report and there would also be interactive html reports generated by cucumber and testNG. (Email SMTP details are not inluded in this project which can be updated)

Login.feature file under portal/src/main/resources/features contains the test cases for login test scenarios.

Features can be grouped and run based on their tags.

For Example: To run login tests alone, use @login in the tags field of PortalTestRunner.java class. To run tests based on priority use level tags like @level0 in the Runner class.

REQUIREMENTS

Java 1.8 Maven 3.x.x or above

These are the prerequisites before running the tests: Java can be installed from here - https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html The most reliable and highly recommended version of Java is Java 8 which is compatible with almost all configurations.

Maven can be downloaded and installed fron here - https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi Download apache-maven-3.x.x-bin.zip or above and extract it to a folder.

Set Java and Maven environment variables(JAVA_HOME, M2_HOME, PATH).

Browser Drivers - The tests run on EDGE browser by default which can be modified to CHROME/FIREFOX or SAFARI based on the requirement. This can be modified in common.properties file in core, provided you replace the compatible version of driver in portal/src/main/resources/drivers folder. The existing driver file for edge browser is for version 107.0.14xx. You can find the driver for edge browser in https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/tools/webdriver/#downloads

Please note that the password in common.properties file needs to be updated with your working password along with the email ID before running the tests. This can be included as secrets in environment variable where the tests are scheduled to run automatically.

RUNNING THE TESTS

Open Command prompt in administrator mode

Type mvn install

Alternate: You can also use an IDE to import the project and run it from there :)

By default this runs all the tests. So if you want to run a specific test, please use the specific tag in PortalTestRunner.java class

REPORTING:

All the detailed test reports can be found in the target folder of "portal" project. 
hudl-ui-tests\portal\target\cucumber-reports - Detailed cucumber test report can be found in portal-test-report.html. 
For reference - a sample report is provided along with the root folder of the project.
TestNG based reports can be found under the surefire-reports folder in target folder.

Things that could have been done:
- Add Snyk plugin for security/vulnerability scans (I could have done this using a token generated from a licensed account which I don't have now)
- Add values of the environment variables as secrets in the CI/CD tool. This way we can avoid passwords being checked in to the repo.
